THE ADHERENT'S HANDBOOK OF TARGOSSAS

Table of Contents

Introduction...........................................................3
Creation...............................................................4
Good...................................................................5
Growth.................................................................6
Light..................................................................7
Righteousness..........................................................8
Chaos..................................................................9
Evil..................................................................10
Darkness..............................................................11
Qualities of those that Serve.........................................12

INTRODUCTION
------------

It takes more than enthusiasm and eagerness to truly serve Good. It
takes commitment. A commitment to something far greater than yourself.
It takes Faith. A Faith in Beings far greater than yourself. It takes
acceptance. An acceptance that those without the fortitude to serve Good
will constantly be attempting to tear you down to their level. It takes
understanding. A true understanding of what Good is and is not. An
understanding of why those who serve Good do that which they do. An
understanding of where we have been, where we are now, and where we are
going. An understanding of what you must do if you truly wish to serve
Good.

It is understanding that this handbook endeavors to provide you.

A true grasp of our ideals strengthens our Faith, hardens our resolve,
and makes it less likely our enemies can use manipulation and deception
to demoralise or deceive us. It may well help us help others open their
hearts to the Light and be guided to the path of the Righteous.

It is not sufficient to simply obey, though obey we must. To truly
triumph, we must each take the time to truly understand why we do what
we do. We are not mindless, clockwork creatures or the simpering slaves
in the West. We do not just obey, we understand and embrace the
teachings of the Bloodsworn.

In Targossas, we serve Good. The verb is an action word, implying active
service to Good. We do not 'behave' and hope for the best. We do not
stand by while those who would see the Gift of Ayar-now-Sarapis twisted,
subverted, or destroyed freely go about actively working against
Creation.

If we are firm in our convictions, we live them daily. We do not mouth
the words of our Oath and ignore the great battle around us. There is no
place in Targossas for those who cannot live and actively support the
cause of Good to protect and enhance Creation.

For those who want the goals of Good, but lack the courage to do
something about it, Cyrene will welcome you. For those who would pick
and choose a single aspect of Creation to advance, find Eleusis.

These fair-weather friends are not our enemies, but they lack the
character to take the obvious actions necessary to preserve that which
Ayar-now-Sarapis Created even while they spout reasonable sounding,
self-justifications of lackluster support.

Such erstwhile friends can be brought into the fold through thoughtful
educational programs, but they do not necessarily hinder Growth and, in
most situations, foster it. That, however, shall not stay us from doing
our duty to the Bloodsworn if and when individuals in those communities
choose poorly in any specific instance. Lord Deucalion has made it clear
that nothing should prevent us from doing what must be done to further
Good's aims; not love of friend and family, nor the squeamish fretting
of mortal ethics.

In the following pages you will find thorough explanations of what
Creation is, what Good is, what the Light is, what Righteousness is, who
our enemies are and why, the actions expected of a servant of Good, and
the pitfalls a servant of Good should be cautious of.

In short, all the basic knowledge a servant of Good needs to begin
formulating their understanding of the path of Good.

CREATION
--------

Creation is all that Ayar-now-Sarapis brought into being either at the
dawn of Creation or later on through the intentional and continuous
regeneration and evolution of Creation and the Created.

Everything we know, with a few key exceptions, is of Creation. It is
important to understand that Creation includes forces we support such as
Good, Light, and Righteousness as well as forces we oppose such as Evil
and Darkness.

It is important to understand this so one does not grow lazy in their
professions of Faith and simply state they are interested in the
protection of Creation. Servants of Good are interested in the continued
advancement and prosperity of Creation. Not blindly protecting all
things that exist in Creation without thought.

GOOD
----

Good is an absolute and unchanging force spawned by Creation for the
purpose of ensuring the continued prosperity and advancement of
Creation.

Good is most assuredly not simply an ideal or set of ideals that we
strive to live by such as kindness, generosity, or compassion. There is
a pervasive idea that Good is tied to a particular set of morals that
change with the times. You will hear this quite often from those who
reside in the city of Cyrene as they attempt to justify their lack of
action or from our enemies who cannot understand why we are not
concerned with being particularly nice to them. This is incorrect. Do
not fall prey to this basic flaw in thinking.

As a force of Creation, Good has the power to influence Creation in a
manner that will see the goals of Good realised. Unlike other forces of
Creation whose influence may manifest in physical ways, Good's influence
tends to be more spiritual in nature.

We are told by the Divine that Good is responsible for the urge to grow
and advance that is taken as a given within Creation. It has also been
extrapolated that Good is responsible for what we think of as
conscience. Good acts as an internal compass within all of us that
steers us away from those actions which interfere with spiritual,
mental, and physical Growth and towards those actions that will instead
encourage this Growth.

It is not a coincidence that those who wish to follow the path of Evil
must constantly strive to suppress their conscience in order to
successfully carry out their Master's will.

Good is as it was when first spawned by Creation and will remain as such
for all eternity. Our imperfect mortal understanding of it may, and has,
changed as we become more enlightened but Good itself does not change.
Good is not a force from outside Creation, such as Chaos. It is not the
realm of any particular Divine. It was birthed directly from Creation
and as such is intimately tied to it.

It was birthed with a purpose. Creation itself can be thought of as a
grand laboratory. Ayar-now-Sarapis created it and ever since, it has
been in a state of constant progress. Sometimes rapid. Sometimes slow.

Carrying the analogy further, consider this laboratory to be filled with
individuals all with the potential of taking the materials and tools
provided in the laboratory and improving on something existing or
creating something brand new. Be it a new race created by a Divine or a
way of building a better paving stone by a mason, or simply growing from
seedling to great oak.

Good is the force that spurs on this advancement and works to keep the
laboratory environment conducive to said advancement. Encouraging Growth
and keeping conditions prime for Growth. This is what is meant by
ensuring the continued prosperity and advancement of Creation.

We who serve Good are not a peaceful people. Given the constant threats
of the modern era, this is not a luxury we can afford. The following
pages will expand on the threats to Good as well as provide examples of
the harm they have caused. To sit idly by while these threats accumulate
and gain strength fails to serve Good. It is simply lip service,
regardless of the justification.

It is not a matter of bloodlust. It is a matter of ensuring the
continued prosperity of Creation. We would see a turning from these
destructive paths if possible. However, a continued refusal to recognise
the harm they do or support will not be ignored.

We do not shy away from eradication of threats via violence. To do so is
to not fully accept the severity of the situation. However, this does
not mean we revel in the bloodshed. Satisfaction in the execution of our
duties is to be expected. There should always be some regret that such
is necessary.

It can never be forgotten why we do what we do. It can never be
forgotten that the ultimate goal is the Growth of Creation. When the
threats are eliminated equal attention must be paid to spurring new
Growth and progress.

Thus is Good served.

GROWTH
------

Growth, though its own ideal, is inextricably linked to Good. Good is
the force spawned by Creation which seeks the advancement and continued
prosperity of Creation. That advancement - the methods and the journey
undertaken - are where we find the work of Growth.

Growth has two parts: that is which is directly beneficial to Creation
as a whole and that which occurs on an individual level. These parts are
only defined as such so that our weak mortal minds can better understand
Growth. They are not separate.

When an individual servant of Good seeks and accomplishes his own Growth
and assists those around him to do the same, so too does this Growth aid
Creation in its advancement. As Creation continues toward its
advancement of purity, it becomes easier for the individual to grow as
the roadblocks to Growth are removed.

It is these opportunities, the identification of need within ourselves,
and others, to continually learn and adapt is where Growth is as
apparent as it is broad. Those who give their time over to educate on
the ways of Good, to train their peers to become better warriors for
Creation, and to be guides on the path directly apply Growth to
Creation.

It is the constant efforts of these attitudes and actions toward Growth
which allow Creation its continued advancement. Each day a new servant
of Good exposed to the Light and to Righteousness, the cycle of student
and teacher continues. With every effort the forces of Good grow in
strength and number and with more able minds and bodies Creation is
better defended from that which will see its destruction.

Just as important to understanding Growth is to learn what it is not. As
servants of Good, our objective is not only to grow but discover and
eradicate that which cause the opposite of Growth. As Growth is an
intricate part of Creation's continued prosperity that which hinders
Growth is directly linked to its impurity.

Where the servant of Good puts himself selflessly aside to attend to
matters bigger than himself, an enemy of Creation is one who strives
selfishly and greedily for his own gains without care for those around
him nor the consequences of his actions. He lives in a manner which
ignores the calling of the Light and the methods of the Righteous. He is
an enemy whose mind must be changed or his actions put to an end.

This brings us to a harsh clarity when it comes to Growth: there are
times when the only method to assist the Growth of Creation, and even
the individual himself, is a rebirth brought from destruction. An
incessant warrior who values strength, cruelty, madness, or deception
must sometimes be defeated utterly before he will see the error of his
ways. A stubborn, unenlightened mind must be broken for the Truth to be
known - only then can we as advocates of Good do our work and help the
mind see the way.

LIGHT
-----

Light is the guiding force of the servants of Good, and Lady Aurora
illuminates the paths of the devout and infuses them with the motivation
needed to act as conduits of Good.

Lady Aurora, the Lightbringer, embodies the spiritual manifestation of
Light in Creation. As such, She is the sole authority on all matters
pertaining to the Light.

Fundamentally, Light strives to keep Creation together, to drive the
servants of Good on their path of preserving Life and seeing Creation
actualised as designed - perfect, pure, and harmonious.

Our faith tells us that Creation is full of potential for growth,
discovery, and accomplishment. This potential can be corrupted and
twisted by malignant forces until it is but a pale reflection of what it
once was. The Light would see such corruptions excised from Creation.

The two key tenets of Light are Hope and Growth.

Hope is the first tenet of Her realm. For followers of Light, it is a
beacon of confidence which sparks an optimism of spirit and kindles the
faith needed to do the difficult, complex work of advancing Creation.
For those outside of Light, Hope can be the antidote to cynicism and
impotence. Where other faiths rely on or inspire only hopelessness,
Light embraces and incites the mortal imagination to see possibility
where others have forsaken it. Hope, therefore, illuminates the
redemptive path toward Good. It is, in fact, Hope which enables the
modern follower of Light to believe in and enact what those of weaker
faiths would see as impossible: our holy mandate to actualise Creation
as it ought to be.

The second tenet of Light is Growth. Light seeks to fuel Creation's
continual advancement and expansion, or Growth. For the individual,
Growth demands a zealous dedication to mastering their flaws such that
they may embody their stewardship of Creation wholeheartedly. In order
to do this, Growth will also necessitate candid discernment of one's

capabilities and areas for improvement in service to Them.

Light offers Hope to the forces that seek to harm and tamper with
Creation, attempting to motivate them to change their paths. Light
additionally is the nurturer of the new Growth that follows in the wake
of such forces' penitence, destruction, or conversion.

The direct servants of the Lightbringer are formally known as the Aarash
Kheyr but are often referred to as the Aarashi. Ethian's Accord, which
all Aarashi are sworn to live by, consists of seven principles that
build upon the two key tenets listed above. The seven are: Candour,
Hope, Clemency, Valour, Safeguard, Growth, and Resolve.

The Aarash Kheyr consists of two sects: The Rasul and the Shamshir.

The Rasul primarily act as the prophets, scholars, and preachers of the
Light, ministering to the faithful and spreading the teachings of the
Lightbringer to the unenlightened. The Shamshir are the warriors of the
Light, dedicated to eliminating the threats that endanger Creation and
guarding that which the Lightbringer has marked as precious to Her.

While both sects have their focus areas, all Aarashi are expected to be
capable in all aspects of service. Thus you will see Rasul fighting and
you will see Shamshir preaching.

RIGHTEOUSNESS
-------------

Righteousness is the course of actions that are necessary to advance the
cause of Good. Purity and Sacrifice are at the core of the Righteous
Lord's realm. The purification of Creation is His ultimate goal, and the
righteous must be willing to sacrifice everything to obtain that goal.

Impurities come in many forms, but they are chiefly the three well-known
enemies of Good: Evil, Darkness, and Chaos. Although all impurities must
be addressed, the Righteous Fire's primary foe is Chaos, for it is a
direct threat to the very existence of Creation.

Sacrifice is an ongoing effort, and entails not only the giving up of
material things to others in need, but the renouncement of harmful
mindsets and behaviours. Through Sacrifice, the Faithful remove barriers
that would otherwise impede the influence of Good within and without.

Those who devote themselves to the Righteous Fire are known as the
Caefir Conlaodh: His Vessels. Living humble lifestyles and often
clothed in simple grey attire, the Caefir are duty-bound to do
everything in their power to safeguard and purify Creation: cleansing
that which can be redeemed, destroying that which cannot, and confining
those things which can neither be saved nor destroyed.

CHAOS
-----

Chaos is a force that is anathema to Creation. It exists in its purest
form in the Chaos realm, outside of Creation. Chaos twists, corrupts,
and destroys everything that it comes into contact with in Creation and
has the potential to consume the entire multiverse if left unchecked.

Lord Babel patrons the realm, and His followers are known as Babelonians
or Babelites or sometimes Nihilists. They seek to facilitate the
entrance of Chaos into Creation and the destruction of the world at the
hands of Chaos.

We fight them because they seek to increase the presence of Chaos in
Creation. While the Nihilists will mouth the inevitability of such a
future, we know that Oblivion will only occur should we, the forces of
Good, allow it to happen.

Creation existed before Chaos entered into it. Creation will continue
without Chaos. While the Chaos present in Creation has been dispersed to
less harmful levels, never forget that our oaths call us to restore
Creation to its pure state.

So our fight is two-fold. First, to prevent those who would further
taint Creation with more Chaos; second, to seek ways to eliminate the
traces of Chaos from Creation. Those occultists who work daily to bring
more Chaos into Creation must be ruthlessly suppressed and destroyed.
There can be no quarter for those who actively seek to destroy Creation.

Do not be lulled by their puling lies of creativity, and sparks, and
inevitability. Chaos destroys Creation, there is no doubt. Any being
that would seek to increase Chaos's presence in the world, must be
stopped at all costs.

 
EVIL
----

Evil is a purely malevolent force within Creation that revels in
cruelty, destruction and suffering. The proponents of Evil strive to
remake Creation to suit the vision of Evil. This is a fairly
straightforward vision.

Those designated as 'weak' will be either destroyed or subjugated into
servitude to the 'strong'. Pain and suffering will be the primary
attributes of this new world. Whether you will be on the inflicting or
receiving end of the pain and suffering is determined entirely by how
'strong' you are. Strength appears to be determined subjectively.

In short, Evil is an unsustainable and infeasible worldview that offers
nothing of value excepting short lived pleasure for those with severe
sadomasochistic tendencies.

The current Lord of Evil is Lord Sartan. The previous joint Lords of
Evil were Lord Shaitan and Lord Apollyon. Prior to that it was Lord
Sartan. Prior to that it was Lord Shaitan. The multiple instances of the
Lord of Evil being fractured and joined with other Divinities and
fractured again may provide insight into this rather disturbing realm.

It should be noted that all evidence supports the fact that the supposed
beliefs espoused by followers of Evil, such as the Seven Truths, are
nothing more than the method the Lord of Evil uses to acquire and
control slaves from the mortal population.

It is increasingly evident that the entire set of beliefs is simply
there to keep these mortals busy and deluded until they are next needed
to sacrifice themselves for whatever scheme Lord Sartan next concocts.

We fight Evil because those who espouse Lord Sartan's Seven Truths seek
Growth, but Growth only for themselves at the expense of the Growth of
the rest of Creation. This is the pure and simple reason: followers of
Evil intentionally seek to become strong at the expense of others.

By killing wantonly and strengthening themselves, they damage the Growth
potential of the rest of Creation. And while many will counter that the
forces of Good kill, we only kill when necessary and having determined
that by limiting the Growth of our enemies, we actually improve the
Growth potential of Creation.

The forces of Good do not kill without thought; without careful
consideration that our killing is supporting the overall Growth of
Creation by either limiting the ability of others to hinder growth or
(as in hunting) to gather essence necessary to keep the guardians of
Creation strong.

Consider this similar to the pruning of a garden. At times it is
necessary to cut back old Growth so that there may be a new flowering,
or to tear out diseased Growth so that it does not contaminate other
plants. Growth is denied in each of these cases, but the end result is
to see that Growth for the entire garden is enhanced beyond the cost of
the pruning. Such is the work of Targossas.

DARKNESS
--------

Darkness is one of the more malignant and seductive forces within
Creation. Like other malevolent forces we stand opposed to, Darkness
seeks to twist Creation to its own purposes and vision. The primary
beliefs of Darkness center around manipulation, strife, intrigue,
deception, lies, and mysteries.

Darkness is the realm of Lord Twilight and His followers are known as
Darkwalkers. Both Lord Twilight and the Darkwalkers have an extensive
history of plots and schemes that have caused great harm to Sapience and
Good such as the Death's Heart Saga.

Nothing is true. Everything is permissible.

These words summarise the world view of Darkness and serve as a mantra
for the Darkwalkers. Their beliefs are mercurial as even a cursory
reading of the 'Laws of Darkness' will make abundantly clear. They begin
with the premise that the world we perceive is nothing more than that, a
perception. The 'true' world is dark and unknowable.

To understand this core belief is to understand the methods of Darkness.
To those submerged in Darkness, there is no Truth. Or if there is, it is
unknowable and therefore a pointless thing to pursue. Anything that
works to further the goals of Darkness at any given time is a valid
viewpoint. If a belief is keeping them from fulfilling their goals, they
will abandon it for one that will.

In this they feel they are superior and privy to a deep secret.

It should be noted that followers of Darkness state that there is a
great work to be accomplished by Darkness; the creation of the world as
it should be. The exact nature of this great work or how precisely the
world should be changes depending on the Darkwalker one speaks with at
any given time.

Darkness can be found anywhere and in anyone. One does not need to
actually be a follower of Lord Twilight to succumb to Darkness when they
utilise deception and manipulation to advance themselves or their
agendas. Even self-deception is a product of Darkness.

Vigilance and a dedication to Truth, however painful, is paramount in
combatting the Darkness.

Creation's intent and unfolding was designed by the Creator. As the
forces of Good, we must actively be on guard for the subtle lies and
half-truths used by Darwalkers and the like to weaken our own resolve or
trick us into doing more harm than good.

Only a deep and secure understanding of our faith can gird you to
withstand the manipulations of the Dark One. If you do not truly
understand what the Bloodsworn call us to do, you may unwittingly
undermine the will of Ayar-now-Sarapis and assist Lord Twilight in using
Creation to His own purposes.

QUALITIES OF THOSE WHO SERVE GOOD
---------------------------------

Through their actions can an individual be identified as one who truly
serves Good or one that simply pays lip service for their own goals.

One who truly serves Good is humble. They recognise that regardless of
their accomplishments, they are just one part of the greater whole that
is Good. They do not foolishly believe that they know better than the
Bloodsworn when it comes to how to best serve Good. They recognise that
their own personal issues are to never interfere with their service.
Their pride comes from their service to Good, not from their own
inflated sense of self worth. When they make a mistake they acknowledge
it and seek to correct it.

One who truly serves Good is resolved. If a task needs to be done in the
service of Good, they do not make excuses or wait for someone else to do
it. They do that which needs to be done.

One who truly serves Good understands what that means. They know what
Good is. They know how their actions serve Good. They can defend
themselves and explain themselves. They can explain their beliefs to
others. Their Faith is not a blind faith. They dedicate time to
educating themselves. They ask the questions they need to ask in order
to better understand their path.

One who truly serves Good holds no bloodlust in their heart. They kill
because it is necessary for the continued Growth and prosperity of
Creation. There is no pleasure in the act itself. There is no brutality
unless such is specifically called for in service to Good. They ask why
someone needs to be slain rather than if it is permissible to slay them.
If an individual finds themselves primarily concerned with the killing
of our enemies with little else occupying their mind or time, they
likely need to step back from the battlefield lest they be lost to the
very things they claim to fight.

One who truly serves Good is repulsed by the enemies of Good. They have
no interest in being in their company unless required by duty. They
understand that the actions an individual takes or supports -is- who
that individual is, regardless of how pretty and kind their empty words
may be. They understand what makes someone an enemy of Good and why that
includes entire populations of cities. They do not need to be told not
to fraternise.