Composed by: Yen on or about the 2nd of Ero, 942 AF.

The Font of Targossas
---------------------

What it is
---------------------
The Flames of the Dawn is the font of Targossas. The font is a store of
power that can be called upon to provide an additional defense for the
city. It is located at Scythia Square (WALK TO FONT).

How it works
---------------------
When called upon by a soldier ranked four or higher in the military, the
font will expend power to affect enemies within the city in certain
ways. There are three options:

- WEAKEN will cause an affliction that increases the amount of damage an
enemy takes over time. The longer enemies remain in the city, the more
effective damaging attacks will be on them. (50% font cost)

- QUAKE is a short lasting empowerment that will disrupt propping. (9%
font cost)

- DECAY reduces the lifespan of persistent room effects, causing rites,
vibrations, gravehands, and harmonics to decay at a faster rate. (19%
font cost)

- SENSE shows everyone within the city. (2-3% font cost)

Generally, WEAKEN is used in standard defense. After every use, the font
will need to be replenished.

How to fill
---------------------
To fill the font you must seek out lesser eidolons and PUT them IN the
FLAMES until it is full. There are approximately 8-9 eidolons per area.
Please note that they are highly mobile.

Abominations (Mhaldor):
Abominations are located on Mhaldor Isle. Be wary of attack by
Mhaldorians when hunting them.

Things of Chaos (Ashtan):
These can be found in the Mhojave Desert. They are often the easiest to
gather.

Lamassu (Hashan):
These can be found in North Ithmia.

Mountain Drakes (Cyrene):
These can be found in Southern Vashnars.
                                     
Flower Maidens (Eleusis):
Found within the Western Ithmia.


Duties
---------------------
Arbiters (AR4) or higher in the Army may travel to the font and EMPOWER
FONT. Aides to security may check the status of the font's power from
within the Council Chamber with CITY FONT STATUS.

Citizens are expected to fill the font immediately after it is used.

For those unable to check the font status in the Council Chamber, can
gauge how full the font is when you see the following occur:

25%:
A dazzling haze of motes shimmer briefly above the Flames of the Dawn
before cascading gracefully back into the basin.
         
50%:
Golden motes erupt from the Flames of the Dawn, swirling brilliantly
above the onyx basin before receding back into its depths.

75%:
The fiery conflagration within the Flames of the Dawn flares brightly,
increasing in ferocity.

100%:
The fire within the onyx basin sputters briefly, brilliant sparks
flaring upwards.
The fiery tendrils grow in size, blazing trails of light pulsing from
the Flames of the Dawn, casting incandescent motes high into the air.

You will know the font is full when burning too intensely to be
approached. Generally, the city logs will be updated regularly with the
status of the font if and when it is not full, so READLOG TARGOSSAS to
see the most recent estimate.

Please see HELP CITYDESTRUCTION for further details.

Note
----

This scroll is referenced by TASK 259. Don't rename or delete it!